The President:
Hi, everybody.
Sunday is International
Women's Day -- a day
to celebrate remarkable
women and girls worldwide,
and to re-dedicate
ourselves to defending
the fundamental rights and
dignity of all people.
That's why, this week,
Michelle and I launched
a new initiative on a
topic that's close
to both our hearts:
girls' education.
It's called "Let
Girls Learn."
And its goal is to help
more girls around
the world go to school
and stay in school.
Right now, 62 million girls who
should be in school, are not.
And that's not an accident.
It's the direct result of
barriers, large and small,
that stand in the way of
girls who want to learn.
Maybe their families can't
afford the school fees.
Maybe the risk of being hurt
or kidnapped or even killed
by men who will do anything
to stop girls from learning
is just too great.
Or maybe they aren't in
school because they're
expected to get married
and become mothers while
they're still teenagers
-- or even earlier.
In too many parts of the
world, girls are still
valued more for their bodies
than for their minds.
That's just plain wrong.
And we all have to
do more to stop it.
That's the idea behind
"Let Girls Learn."
We're making it clear to any
country that's our partner --
or that wants to be our partner
-- that they need to get
serious about increasing the
number of girls in school.
Our diplomats and
development experts are
already hard at work.
Our Peace Corps volunteers
will play a big role, too.
And we're putting our
partnerships with NGOs,
businesses and foundations
to work on behalf
of girls everywhere.
I come to this issue as the
leader of the world's largest
economy, and
Commander-in-Chief
of the world's most powerful
military, and I'm convinced
that a world in which
girls are educated
is a safer, more stable,
more prosperous place.
When girls are
educated, their future
children are healthier
and better nourished.
Their future wages increase,
which in turn strengthens
their families' security.
National growth
gets a boost, too.
And places where women and
girls are treated as full
and equal citizens
tend to be more stable
and more democratic.
But I also come to this
issue as the father
of two wonderful
young women.
And I know that there are
lots of girls just like Malia
and Sasha out there -- girls
who are funny and caring
and inquisitive and
strong, and have so much
to offer the world.
It's a privilege to be
the parent of girls.
And we want to make sure that
no girl out there is denied
her chance to learn -- that
no girl is prevented from
making her unique
contributions to the world.
Because every girl -- every
girl -- deserves our respect.
And every girl
deserves an education.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.